
To replace functionality in the transition from background pages to extension service workers, developers can use the [`chrome.offscreen`](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/offscreen) API and manifest permission starting in Chrome 109. Requesting this permission allows for the creation of off-screen documents to use DOM APIs without obtrusively opening new windows or tabs that interrupt the user experience. The `chrome.offscreen` API is now available in chrome extensions.

In Chromium, Manifest V3 extensions are service worker-based, but service workers don't provide support for the same APIs and mechanisms that full document-based pages (which include background and event pages) do. Additionally, using content scripts to access DOM APIs on web pages leaves the extension at the mercy of different content security policies on a page-to-page basis. To help solve this, we're introducing Offscreen Documents to support DOM-related features and APIs by allowing Manifest V3 extensions to open minimal, scoped, and relatively un-permissioned offscreen documents at runtime through a dedicated API.

## Feature Information

Since offscreen documents are specifically designed to handle use cases that are not supported in service workers (for example, audio playback), the lifetime of this page, and the permissions it will be granted are separate from that of the extension service worker.
The page will have a lifetime mechanism similar to event pages in Manifest V2, in that it will be torn down when it stops performing actions. Additionally, the user agent may place further restrictions on the lifetime specific to the purpose specified.
Offscreen documents are designed to fill gaps from APIs that are only accessible to DOM APIs; because of this, extension APIs don't need to be exposed directly in this context. To reduce the likelihood of extensions using these as a "background page replacement", only the [`chrome.runtime` messaging APIs](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/mv3/messaging) are exposed to the offscreen document. (Developers may also use web messaging by claiming the offscreen document as a [Client](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Client) via their service worker.)
Because some use cases - in particular, site scraping - require access to cross-origin frames, we allow these documents to embed cross-origin frames following the same rules that extension pages have today. In offscreen documents, content scripts specified by the extension are able to run in these frames in order to scrape any necessary content, as they would for any normal web page.

## Reasons, and requiring a purpose

Creating an offscreen document requires stated reasons and further justification. These reasons are listed in the API reference documentation, and handle the document's lifetime in different ways. For example, a document opened for audio playback currently has different rules applied to its lifetime than a document opened for clipboard management. You can also add further detail on the offscreen document's purpose in the justification, which is a developer-written string, and not a parameter with effects on the document.
Further reasons may be added to the API over time as developers share their feedback and use cases.

## Into the future

For implementation ease, the first version of this API only supports a single page per-extension, per-profile at a time. In future versions, we may relax this to support multiple pages. Currently, if the extension is running in split mode with an active incognito profile, both the normal and incognito profiles can each have one offscreen document.
It is also planned to give the extension worker DOM functionality at a later point. You can "future-proof" your extensions by pairing functions that use the offscreen API with an equivalent commented function in the service worker for swapping at a later date.

    // Solution 1 - Service workers cannot directly interact with
    // the system clipboard. To work around this, we'll create an offscreen
    // document and pass the data we want to write to the clipboard.
    async function addToClipboard(value) {
        await chrome.offscreen.createDocument({
          url: 'offscreen.html',
          reasons: [chrome.offscreen.Reason.CLIPBOARD],
          justification: 'Write text to the clipboard.',
        });
      }


    // Solution 2 -- Once extension service workers can use the Clipboard API,
    // replace the offscreen document based implementation with something like this
    async function addToClipboardV2(value) {
      navigator.clipboard.writeText(value);
    }

Additionally, as DOM functionality and APIs are added to the service worker, the list of [reasons](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/offscreen#reasons) to create a document will be added to or reduced depending on the current state of the service worker, and reasons to use offscreen documents.

### Conclusion

Offscreen Documents allow extensions that require DOM or window interaction access that cannot be achieved in service workers currently. It also provides a flexible approach, where new use cases can be added and future-solved use cases can be removed.
Extensions should employ the proposed offscreen document API for specific use cases, and the primary background context of the extension should remain the service worker specified in the manifest. The offscreen document should not be the place to store primary extension logic because it has limited API access.
The lifetime of an offscreen document is independent of the service worker that created it. Service worker lifetime considerations and use cases related to service worker lifetime in extensions will be covered in a separate blog post.
The reasons to use offscreen documents will fluctuate over time as features and APIs are added to the service worker itself. We are eager to hear developer feedback as this unfolds.

<br />

<br />

## Description

Use the`offscreen`API to create and manage offscreen documents.

<br />

<br />

## Permissions

`offscreen`  

<br />

To use the Offscreen API, declare the`"offscreen"`permission in the[extension manifest](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/manifest). For example:  

    {
      "name": "My extension",
      ...
      "permissions": [
        "offscreen"
      ],
      ...
    }

<br />

## Availability

Chrome 109+MV3+

<br />

<br />

## Concepts and usage

Service workers don't have DOM access, and many websites have content security policies that limit the functionality of content scripts. The Offscreen API allows the extension to use DOM APIs in a hidden document without interrupting the user experience by opening new windows or tabs. The[`runtime`](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/runtime)API is the only extensions API supported by offscreen documents.

Pages loaded as offscreen documents are handled differently from other types of extension pages. The extension's permissions carry over to offscreen documents, but with limits on extension API access. For example, because the[`chrome.runtime`](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/api/runtime)API is the only extensions API supported by offscreen documents, messaging must be handled using members of that API.

The following are other ways offscreen documents behave differently from normal pages:

- An offscreen document's URL must be a static HTML file bundled with the extension.
- Offscreen documents can't be focused.
- An offscreen document is an instance of[`window`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Window), but the value of its`opener`property is always`null`.
- Though an extension package can contain multiple offscreen documents, an installed extension can only have one open at a time. If the extension is running in split mode with an active incognito profile, the normal and incognito profiles can each have one offscreen document.

Use[`chrome.offscreen.createDocument()`](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/api/offscreen#method-createDocument)and[`chrome.offscreen.closeDocument()`](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/api/offscreen#method-closeDocument)to create and close an offscreen document.`createDocument()`requires the document's`url`, a reason, and a justification:  

    chrome.offscreen.createDocument({
      url: 'off_screen.html',
      reasons: ['CLIPBOARD'],
      justification: 'reason for needing the document',
    });

### Reasons

For a list of valid reasons, see the[Reasons](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/api/offscreen#type-Reason)section. Reasons are set during document creation to determine the document's lifespan. The`AUDIO_PLAYBACK`reason sets the document to close after 30 seconds without audio playing. All other reasons don't set lifetime limits.

## Examples

### Maintain the lifecycle of an offscreen document

The following example shows how to ensure that an offscreen document exists. The`setupOffscreenDocument()`function calls[`runtime.getContexts()`](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/api/runtime#method-getContexts)to find an existing offscreen document, or creates the document if it doesn't already exist.  

    let creating; // A global promise to avoid concurrency issues
    async function setupOffscreenDocument(path) {
      // Check all windows controlled by the service worker to see if one
      // of them is the offscreen document with the given path
      const offscreenUrl = chrome.runtime.getURL(path);
      const existingContexts = await chrome.runtime.getContexts({
        contextTypes: ['OFFSCREEN_DOCUMENT'],
        documentUrls: [offscreenUrl]
      });

      if (existingContexts.length > 0) {
        return;
      }

      // create offscreen document
      if (creating) {
        await creating;
      } else {
        creating = chrome.offscreen.createDocument({
          url: path,
          reasons: ['CLIPBOARD'],
          justification: 'reason for needing the document',
        });
        await creating;
        creating = null;
      }
    }

Before sending a message to an offscreen document, call`setupOffscreenDocument()`to make sure the document exists, as demonstrated in the following example.  

    chrome.action.onClicked.addListener(async () => {
      await setupOffscreenDocument('off_screen.html');

      // Send message to offscreen document
      chrome.runtime.sendMessage({
        type: '...',
        target: 'offscreen',
        data: '...'
      });
    });

For complete examples, see the[offscreen-clipboard](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/chrome-extensions-samples/tree/main/functional-samples/cookbook.offscreen-clipboard-write)and[offscreen-dom](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/chrome-extensions-samples/tree/main/functional-samples/cookbook.offscreen-dom)demos on GitHub.

### Before Chrome 116: check if an offscreen document is open

[`runtime.getContexts()`](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/api/runtime#method-getContexts)was added in Chrome 116. In earlier versions of Chrome, use[`clients.matchAll()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Clients/matchAll)to check for an existing offscreen document:  

    async function hasOffscreenDocument() {
      if ('getContexts' in chrome.runtime) {
        const contexts = await chrome.runtime.getContexts({
          contextTypes: ['OFFSCREEN_DOCUMENT'],
          documentUrls: [OFFSCREEN_DOCUMENT_PATH]
        });
        return Boolean(contexts.length);
      } else {
        const matchedClients = await clients.matchAll();
        return matchedClients.some(client => {
          return client.url.includes(chrome.runtime.id);
        });
      }
    }

<br />

## Types

### CreateParameters

#### Properties

  - justification  
  string

  A developer-provided string that explains, in more detail, the need for the background context. The user agent _may_ use this in display to the user.
  - reasons  
  [Reason](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/api/offscreen#type-Reason)\[\]

  The reason(s) the extension is creating the offscreen document.
  - url  
  string

The (relative) URL to load in the document.  

### Reason

#### Enum

"TESTING"  
A reason used for testing purposes only.
"AUDIO_PLAYBACK"  
Specifies that the offscreen document is responsible for playing audio.
"IFRAME_SCRIPTING"  
Specifies that the offscreen document needs to embed and script an iframe in order to modify the iframe's content.
"DOM_SCRAPING"  
Specifies that the offscreen document needs to embed an iframe and scrape its DOM to extract information.
"BLOBS"  
Specifies that the offscreen document needs to interact with Blob objects (including`URL.createObjectURL()`).
"DOM_PARSER"  
Specifies that the offscreen document needs to use the[DOMParser API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/DOMParser).
"USER_MEDIA"  
Specifies that the offscreen document needs to interact with media streams from user media (e.g.`getUserMedia()`).
"DISPLAY_MEDIA"  
Specifies that the offscreen document needs to interact with media streams from display media (e.g.`getDisplayMedia()`).
"WEB_RTC"  
Specifies that the offscreen document needs to use[WebRTC APIs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API).
"CLIPBOARD"  
Specifies that the offscreen document needs to interact with the[Clipboard API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Clipboard_API).
"LOCAL_STORAGE"  
Specifies that the offscreen document needs access to[localStorage](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage).
"WORKERS"  
Specifies that the offscreen document needs to spawn workers.
"BATTERY_STATUS"  
Specifies that the offscreen document needs to use[navigator.getBattery](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Battery_Status_API).
"MATCH_MEDIA"  
Specifies that the offscreen document needs to use[window.matchMedia](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/matchMedia).
"GEOLOCATION"  
Specifies that the offscreen document needs to use[navigator.geolocation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Navigator/geolocation).

<br />

## Methods

### closeDocument()

```typescript
chrome.offscreen.closeDocument(): Promise<void>
```

Closes the currently-open offscreen document for the extension.  

#### Returns

- Promise\<void\>

Promise that resolves when the offscreen document has been closed.  

### createDocument()

```typescript
chrome.offscreen.createDocument(
  parameters: CreateParameters,
): Promise<void>
```

Creates a new offscreen document for the extension.  

#### Parameters

  - parameters  
  [CreateParameters](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/api/offscreen#type-CreateParameters)

The parameters describing the offscreen document to create.  

#### Returns

- Promise\<void\>

  Promise that resolves when the offscreen document is created and has completed its initial page load.

<br />